## [A introduce of Redis data structure and abstract](https://redis.io/topics/data-types-intro)

- Binary-safe strings.
- Lists: collections of string elements sorted according to the order of insertion. They are basically *linked lists*.
- Sets: collections of unique, unsorted string elements.
- Sorted sets, similar to Sets but where every string element is associated to a floating number value, called *score*. The elements are always taken sorted by their score, so unlike Sets it is possible to retrivev a range of elements (for example you may ask: give me the top 10, or the bottom 10).
- Hashes, which are maps composed of fields associated with values. Both the field and the value are strings. This is vary similar to Ruby or Python hashes.
- Bit array (or simply bitmaps): it is possible, using special commands, to handle String value like an array of bits: you can set and clear individual bits, count all the bits set to 1, find the first set or unset bit, and so forth.
- HyperLogLogs: this is a probabilistic data structure which is used in order to estimate the cardinality of a set. Don't be scared, it is simpler than it seems... See later in the HyperLogLog section of this turtorial.
- Streams: append-only collections of map-like entries that provide an abstract log data type. They are covered in depth in the Introduction to Redis Streams.

### Redis keys

Redis keys are binary safe, this means that you can use any binary sequence as a key, from a string like "foo" to the content of a JPEG file. The empty string is also a valid key.

A few other rules about keys:

- Very long keys are not a good idea. For instance a key of 1024 bytes is a bad idean not only memory-wise, but also because the lookup of the key in the dataset may require servral costly key-comparisons. Even when the task at hand is to match the existence of a large value, hashing it  (for example with SHA1) is a better idea, especially from the perspective of memory and bandwidth.
- Very short keys are often not a good idea. There is little point in writing "u1000flw" as akey if you can instead write "user:1000:followers". The latter is more readable and the added space is minor compared to the space used by the key object itself and the value object. While short keys will obviously consume a bit less memory, your job is to find the right balance.
- Try to stick with a schema. For instance "object-type:id" is a good idea, as in "user:1000". Dots or dashes are often used for multi-word fields, as in "comment:1234:reply.to" or "comment:1234:reply-to".
- The maximum allowed key size is 512 MB.

### Redis Strings

- A value can't be bigger than 512 MB.
- Even if strings are the basic values of Redis, there are interesting operations you can perform with them. For instance, one is atomic increment.

### Altering and querying the key space

There are commands that are not defined on particular types, but are useful in order to interact with the space of keys, and thus, can be used with keys of any type.

For example the EXISTS command returns 1 or 0 to signal if a given key exists or not in the database, while the DEL command deletes a key and associated value, whatever the value is.

### [Redis expires](https://redis.io/commands/expire): keys with limited time to live

#### Expires and persistence

Keys expiring information is stored as absolute Unix timestamps (in milliseconds in case of Redis version 2.6 or greater). This means that the time is flowing even when the Redis instance is not active.

For expires to work well, the computer time must be taken stable. If you move an RDB file from two computers with a big desync in their clocks, funny things may happen (like all the keys loaded to be expired at loading time).

#### How Redis expires keys

Redis key are expired in two ways: a passive way, and an active way.

A key is passively expired simply when some client tries to access it, and the key is found to be timed out.

Of course this is not enough as there are expired keys that will never be accessed again. These keys should be expired anyway, so periodically Redis tests a few keys at random among keys with an expire set. All the keys that are already expired are deleted from the keyspace.

Specifically this is what Redis does 10 times per second:

1. Test 20 random keys from the set of keys with an associated expire.
2. Delete all the keys found expired.
3. If more than 25% of keys were expired, start again from step 1.

### Redis Lists

Redis lists are implemented via Linked Lists. This means that even if you have millions of elements inside a list, the operation of adding a new element in the head or in the tail of the list is performed *in constant time*. 

### Redis Sets

Redis Sets are unordered collections of strings. 

### Redis Sorted sets

Sorted sets are a data type which is similar to a mix between a Set and a Hash. Like sets, sorted sets are composed of unique, non-repeating string elements, so in some sense a sorted set is a set as well.

However while elements inside sets are not ordered, every element in a sorted set is associated with a floating point value, called *the score* (this is why the type is also similar to a hash, since every element is mapped to a value).

Moreover, elements in a sorted sets are taken in order (so they are not ordered on request, order is a peculiarity of the data structure used to represent sorted sets). They are ordered according to the following rule:

- If A and B are two elements with a different score, then A > B if A.score is > B.score.
- If A and B have exactly the same score, then A > B if the A string is lexicographically greater than the B string. A and B strings can't be equal since sorted sets only have unique elements.